7.	DISCOVERY OF FINANCIAL IRREGULARITIES
AD 7.1
During or about mid June 2025, our accountant (for the corporations aforesaid, being the third to sixth respondents) attended to our oﬃce (Mr Daniel Jacobus Bantjes), so that provisional tax and VAT submissions could be ﬁnalised. His conﬁrmatory aﬃdavit, which conﬁrms this and the further information in his knowledge (set out in this aﬃdavit), is attached hereto marked "PF6".
AD 7.2
He noted, following his attendance, and during July 2025, numerous discrepancies in the applicant corporations' banking accounts, and numerous irregular payments therefrom, with which I deal in the paragraphs below.
AD 7.3
Those payments all seemed to relate to IT (Information Technology) related expenses, based on the nomenclature, and names of the line items therein.

AD 7.4
This 'department' falls under the purview of my son â whose conduct has become increasingly erratic as of late.
AD 7.5
The payments in question could not be explained by my wife and son, and I, accordingly, cancelled their business bank cards (and my own, for the sake thereof) during June 2025, and requested invoices and proof of expenses from my son for the numerous unexplained expenses.
AD 7.6
Although he provided a few, the majority of the transactions remain unexplained.
AD 7.7
Some of our actual subscriptions, pertaining to, inter alia, internet domains, and the like, were halted due to the card cancellations.

AD 7.8
Instead of assisting therewith, my son, unfortunately, adopted a 'superior' position and eﬀectively refused to assist.
AD 7.9
I attach hereto relevant inter-oﬃce communications with my son, conﬁrming all of the above, as annexure "PF7".
AD 7.10
The communications were with his personal assistant for the most part, upon my instructions.
AD 7.11
It is clear that he would or could not provide relevant invoices.
AD 7.12
My son, through the above, inter alia, interfered with the corporations' staﬀ doing their jobs.

AD 7.13
Upon the domains and the like being re-instated through payment, our son elected not to provide all employees/staﬀ access to their historic emails and email accounts, but did so on an ad hoc basis, as it suited him.
AD 7.14
This interference has, unfortunately, also continued.
AD 7.15
This conduct is not in the interests of the corporations.
AD 7.16
My wife simply re-approached the banks (being the seventh and eighth respondents) and obtained duplicate/new cards, on or about 24 June 2025.
AD 7.17
I discussed the transactions with her, but she rejected any idea of malfeasance or neglect on our son's part.

7.18-7.20 THE R500,000 PAYMENT
AD 7.18
She adopted an 'I will show you' approach, defended our son, and then transferred to him the sum of R500,000.00 from the corporations, on or about 16 July 2025, as a 'birthday gift', which I did not authorise, and which he was not entitled to accept; she has no other sources of income other than her remuneration by the third to sixth respondents.
AD 7.19
This was without my knowledge, and the expense cannot remotely be described as being a legitimate business expense.
AD 7.20
This was separate to his remuneration as director/member.
