12.	NECESSITY OF RELIEF
AD 12.1
I say, with respect, that the orders sought under PART B of the notice of motion are essential to the survival of the third to sixth respondents, as the relationship between the directors and members (namely the ﬁrst and second respondents, and I) has disintegrated and become deadlocked to the extent that they would otherwise have to be liquidated, to my signiﬁcant detriment, and to the detriment of my wife, and son, who are sustained by those corporations - as well as to the detriment of the corporations.

AD 12.2
Needless to say, with respect, the extent to which money appears to have been misappropriated from the third to sixth respondent, (which has unquestionably ﬂowed out of those corporations, and very irregularly at that), which continues, is not sustainable, has already created signiﬁcant taxation problems, and will inescapably lead to their insolvency.
AD 12.3
I approach this Honourable Court to prevent this.
AD 12.4
It goes without saying, with respect, that my wife and son can serve those corporations in capacities other than director or member, and can be sustained thereby.

13.	INTERDICTS SOUGHT
AD 13.1
I say further, with respect, that the interdicts (and other relief) sought under PART A of the notice of motion are also essential to the survival of the third to sixth respondents; the rot must, with respect, be stopped urgently, which will be impossible in the absence of appropriate interdictory relief, such as is set out in therein.

AD 13.2
Requirements for Interdict
AD 13.2.1
I have, with respect, a clear (and a prima facie) right not to be prejudiced by the unlawful conduct of the ﬁrst and second respondents that causes such harm to the third to sixth respondents that will inevitably lead to the loss of the entities that sustain me.
AD 13.2.2
I have already sustained an injury by way of actual harm caused to those corporations, and I apprehend (reasonably, with respect) further (similar) injury committed by the ﬁrst and second respondents.
AD 13.3
Needless to say, with respect, I have a reasonable, and well-grounded apprehension of further, and irreparable harm if the interdicts I seek are not granted.

AD 13.4
I have no alternative adequate remedy; I am constrained to approach this Honourable Court for essential interdictory (and other) relief, as I now do.
AD 13.5
The balance of convenience favours, with respect, the granting of the interim interdictory (and other) relief sought under PART A of the notice of motion.
AD 13.6
In the premises, I say with respect that I am entitled to the relief I seek under PART A of the notice of motion, on an interim, and a ﬁnal basis.
AD 13.7
I ask, with respect, that any relief not granted under PART A of the notice of motion be adjudicated under PART B thereof.

14.	OTHER RELIEF SOUGHT
AD 14.1
As appears from PART A of the notice of motion, I also ask for orders enabling me to take control of the ﬁnancial administration of the third to sixth respondents (which is essential for their survival), and to commence and prosecute a forensic investigation into their ﬁnancial aﬀairs, for which purpose the compliance of the ﬁrst and second respondents is essential.
AD 14.2
It is vital, with respect, that such funds as may be recovered (pursuant to a forensic investigation) are restored to the aforesaid corporations, so that they can meet their tax obligations, and continue with their businesses.
AD 14.3
It is also essential that the ﬁrst and second respondent are constrained to the extent that they can no longer cause ﬁnancial prejudice to the third to sixth respondents.

AD 14.4
The forensic audit is also necessary for purposes of PART B of the notice of motion; I have no objection to the ﬁrst and second respondents continuing to receive their present remuneration until PART B is ﬁnally adjudicated; it is essential, however, that they are not permitted to participate in the ﬁnancial administration of the corporations in question until this matter has been ﬁnally determined.
AD 14.5
I ask again, with respect, that any relief not granted under PART A of the notice of motion be adjudicated under PART B thereof.

16.	URGENCY
AD 16.1
The conduct of the ﬁrst and second respondents was only discovered (and partially so) during mid June 2025; at that stage we were still trying to establish why those payments had been made, and the authors thereof.
AD 16.2
On or about 16 July 2025, when the ﬁrst respondent transferred the sum of R500,000.00 to the second respondent, it became clear that action had to be taken to protect the third to sixth respondents.
AD 16.3
The conduct, pertaining to unnecessary funds leaving the businesses at the ﬁrst and/or second respondents' behest, is continual.

AD 16.4
As may be expected, with respect, I was still in a state of shock (which resulted in me not being able to think clearly) when I approached my attorneys of record for advice, on 05 August 2025.
AD 16.5
I was unaware that an urgent application to this Honourable Court could be pursued, until advised thereof by my attorneys; if I had known that earlier, there would have been no delay.
AD 16.6
Following thereupon, instructions, information, discussions, and the appointment of Counsel to settle these papers, was required.

AD 16.7
I have also been required to proceed, as is extremely diﬃcult, with such instructions to my attorneys of record secretively, so as to prevent any funds leaving the corporations as a result of such instructions - or any other untoward 'knee-jerk' reactions.
AD 16.8
This has, as a result, been a more time consuming manner in which to provide instructions to my attorneys of record.
AD 16.9
I say with respect, however, that every passing day constitutes a new ground of urgency due to the ﬁrst and second respondent's reckless, and delinquent conduct that indicates clearly that they will not cease their transgressions.

AD 16.10
It is probable, with respect, that the third to sixth respondents will suﬀer irremediable harm if the ﬁrst and second respondent's are not stopped from continuing their misconduct as soon as possible.
AD 16.11
Doubtless, with respect, the misappropriated money has been squandered and/or concealed.
AD 16.12
In the premises, I say with respect that the third to sixth respondents (and me accordingly) will be unable to obtain substantial, or any relief in due course if this Honourable Court does not come to my assistance urgently.

17.	EX PARTE APPLICATION
AD 17.1
This application is lodged ex parte as I fear, with good reason, that the ﬁrst and/or second respondents will react to the service of this application upon them by misappropriating further sums of money from the aforesaid corporations (as a "knee jerk reaction" thereto), due to the ﬁrst respondent having immediately and deﬁantly transferred the sum of R500,000.00 to the second respondent, shortly after I took their cards, as aforesaid, and questioned the transactions.
AD 17.2
This application serves also (to an extent) the purpose of an anton piller application in that I - having reason to believe that the ﬁrst and second respondents will conceal or destroy relevant documentation if they are not subject to an appropriate order - request an order that they surrender, forthwith, all documentation (electronic and otherwise) within their possession relating to the administration (ﬁnancial and otherwise) of the third to sixth respondents, and all login details and passwords to any banking and other online facilities relating thereto.
AD 17.3
Such applications are usually brought, with respect, on an ex parte basis, for obvious reasons.
AD 17.4
In the premises we say that the matter is suﬃciently urgent to compel the attention of the above Honourable Court ex parte, on an urgent basis.

18.	COSTS
I say, with respect, that the costs order sought in the notice of motion are appropriate in the circumstances.

PRAYER WHEREFORE, THE ABOVE HONOURABLE COURT IS REQUESTED RESPECTFULLY TO GRANT AN ORDER AS PRAYED IN THE NOTICE OF MOTION. DATED AT PRETORIA ON 13th AUGUST 2025 DEPONENT COMMISSIONER OF OATHS CERTIFICATION I CERTIFY THAT THE DEPONENT HAS ACKNOWLEDGED THAT HE KNOWS AND UNDERSTANDS THE CONTENTS OF THIS AFFIDAVIT, WHICH WAS SIGNED AND SWORN BEFORE ME AT BEDFORDVIEW on 13 AUGUST 2025; THE REGULATIONS CONTAINED IN GOVERNMENT NOTICE NO. R 1258 OF 21 JULY 1972, AS AMENDED, HAVING BEEN COMPLIED WITH-THE DEPONENT HAVING ACKNOWLE...<__filter_complete__></__filter_complete__>
